from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 52 recorded
live Thursday, February 3rd, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Telerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Paul bets
about extending the reactive framework.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hanselminutes today. We've got Paul
bets on a Microsoft engineer,
deep in the machine somewhere.
Where do you work now?
Paul? These days I'm working
on in office labs. So
we're working on kind of
the future productivity, kind of
what our office is going
to do beyond 2010. And
what's interesting, how can we
take these trends in the
industry and kind of mix
them together and make a
great office experience. And before
you used to like, what
patch the Colonel, you worked
somewhere in the middle of
the beach. Yeah. So, so
when I was in college,
I told, I told everyone
it's like, yeah, I really
want to do UI when
I applied to Microsoft. And
they're like, you know what?
We got the place for
you, the S Colonel and
drivers. So, but it was
very cool. It got to
see all kinds of different
things, you know? Oh, like,
you know, down to Sheba,
call us up. And they're
like, we're making this new
machine, but we're having some
problems. We need you to
fix this, fix this windows
issue. And that's what I
did. It was very cool.
Wow. That's another show right
there. But the thing I
wanted to talk to you
about is that there's this
thing that I've talked to
Eric Meyer about a while back
called the RX reactive extensions.
And recently I think last
week that became like an
official thing. It was a
labs thing that would have
been worked on and kind
of a, of an incubator.
And then it has become
official. It is supported and
people can download it, but
it's confusing. And I'm not,
even though I did a
full show with Eric and
I think I pretty much
get it. I'm not a
hundred percent there. And then
you've gone and extended it,
taking the concept of model,
view, view model, and merged
it with, with RX and
made something even more interesting
that that could potentially change
how someone would write a
UI. So can you start
me at the beginning and
explain what reactive programming is
and how RX relates to
that? Sure. So the way
that I like to think
of it is that I
like to take, start with
link. You know, a lot
of people understand link. We
have, you know, this array
and then we kind of
build this pipeline of like
selects and wares and first,
and then at the other
end, we have a new
array, right? So for a
lot of patterns, this is
really useful. Like, you know,
if I was writing a
compiler, then link is really
cool. Cause I have an
input and then I transform
it a lot. And then
I end up with an
output, right. So, but we
have this other paradigm, like
a reactive paradigm, which, which
people have done been doing
reactive paradigm programming for a
long time, right? Every user
interfaces is reactive programming, right.
Because we're, we're having this
event come in this click
or a mouse and then
we're responding to it. Right.
It's not like we know
ahead of time, what's going
to happen. Right. We don't
have the list of clicks
that will always happen. We
mostly sit around and wait
for someone to poke us
and say something has happened.
Yeah, exactly, exactly. So we
w it would be cool
if we could take that
same, same link ideas and
then kind of apply it
to things that are coming
in. So instead of, instead
of having an event, a
really simple event called key
up, that's not really what
I really want to know.
What I really want to
know is when somebody, you
know, does this and this
and this and this, then
tell me that and where,
where the sequence of the
things is like something meaningful
to my program. Like I
took the, the object and
then put it in this
other list, right. Dragged and
dropped it, or something is
the more concretely putting it
more concretely. It was very
low level. Right. But if
someone typed a capital letter
that might be slightly higher
level. And if someone typed
in S C O that
might be even higher level,
is that the kind of
thing you're talking about? Yeah,
exactly. Like taking these, taking
when, when we program with
events are, are our Lego
pieces. So to say are
really small. And it's like
trying to build everything using
these really small pieces. And
so react to re the
reactive extensions, lets us build
bigger pieces. Right. And then
once we build that bigger
piece, we can kind of
combine those two bigger pieces
into an even bigger piece.
Right. So it lets us,
it lets us basically kind
of take, take these different
parts and make bigger parts
so that we can kind
of reason about them better.
Okay. And is this just
event filtering It's event filtering?
It's combining really the, the
description that a lot of
people give to, to the
reactive extensions is linked to
events, but really what you're
doing, it ends up, it
feels like it's really like
linked to state machine in
the sense that when, if
you want it to describe
this complicated pattern in terms
of events, you'd have to
use a bunch of booleans
like, you know, is in
drag drop or isn't that.
And, and once you get
enough of those booleans then
your code really confusing. And
so, so using the reactor
extensions, we can, we can
get rid of these booleans
and then just say in
a very like link style
away, you know, this is
what I want to, this
is what I'm actually interested
in. Tell me when that
happens. Okay. One of the
things that Eric had talked
about when I talked to
him before was the idea
of, of pushing events to
me, like, like I said
before, like getting poke and
saying, Hey, click, click, Hey,
click, react to this click,
click click versus what do
you call it? A pull
model. Can you talk about
that? Sure. So, so I
think that the way to
kind of reason about it
is, is that I like
to think of it as
that, you know, I innumerable
is this interface that kind
of represents a list. Like
we think of it as
I knew, if I have
an iron numerable I have
a list. So I observable
is just like a list,
but it's a list of
things that will happen. So
it's kind of like a
future list it's so we
can take, we can treat,
I observe will like a
list, but a list of
things that are going to
happen in the future. And
then, and then we will
take these things that are
coming in and then throw
it through the same pipeline.
Right. And so end up
with a new pipeline, just
like when we take an
eye innumerable and select and
wear it, we ended up
with a numerable. Right. So
the cool thing is we
can use the same language
that we use for describe
for lists and we can
do it for, I call
them future lists. So when
I observed what was like
a list to the future,
So to say, okay, so
can you explain where the
reactive extension stop and where
your ideas starts? Sure. So,
so kind of my inspiration
was, you know, looking over
like blog posts and stack
overflow, people would try to
use reactive extensions with, with
MVVM and, and which is
the model view, view, model
pattern that's used in Silverlight
and WPF a lot. And
I'm, I'm really interested in
Silverlight and WPF as well.
And so I was like,
well, let's see how we
can put these together. So
a few people on, on
stack overflow are like, well,
okay. So, you know, if
this I observable was the
source of events, like what
are events that, that are
common and what are things
that we don't usually think
of events? And so one
of the things was a,
an I command. So in,
in WPF and Silverlight, we've
got this interface called I
command, which is, is kind
of an abstraction for a
user command. So it can
do two things. Right. It
can tell you when this
command is available, can execute.
Right. And then it can
has execute, which lets you
do the thing. Right. So
I was like, well, it's
kind of an eye observable
in the sense that every
time you hit execute, that's
kind of like a signal,
Like an event. Right. So
it was like, okay, so
let's make, let's make an
I command. That is an
observable. So we can watch
like subscribe to whenever somebody
pushes a command. So I
take a button and tie
it to a command and
now I can subscribe to
whenever everyone pushes the button.
So that was, that was
one big thing. Okay. So
I'm just, again, my job
as host is to ask
ignorant questions. It sounded confused,
which will be easy. Sure.
Subscribe isn't subscribing to event.
How is that different from
just hooking up an event
handler and reacting to it?
Sure. So, so, so when
you hook up an event
handler, you will always get
the, you will always get
the notification. Right. So, but
because if it's an I
observable, then I can put
stuff between it. I can
put like where, right. Where,
where a web service call
isn't running. Right. So I
can ignore things that I'm
not interested in. I could
say that I'm only interested
in this command when something
else is true. I'm only
interested in the OK button
when the password and confirm
password match. Right. So, so
in, in my, in my
subscribe, I'd have to kind
of encapsulate that in the
event handler and for small
things. Right. It's, it's just
as easy. Right. You know,
I can put an if
statement in my event handler.
Right. But as you get
bigger and bigger and bigger,
these event handlers get crazier
and crazier and crazier. Right.
Okay. And so, so I
could declare like a variable
that says like, okay, button
only when web service calls
and running or only when
passwords match. And then I
could combine that with other
things just like in link
when I can say like,
you know, array where select,
and then I could take
that variable and say first.
Hmm. Okay. I see. So,
so your bill, you're taking
this and again, I appreciate
your use of Lego metaphor.
That wasn't very nice. You
are taking really low level
things, building them up. We
using filters and the things
we're used to in link
up to the point where
you've gone from just being
a simple event, filter to
being really a little state
machine, all expressed as a
single link statement to say
something like, I only want
this thing to happen when
these two password dialogue or
these two password, text boxes
are, are the same. And
the password length is greater
than three. Exactly. That then
that is a state. So
is this a, is this
a, how is this different
from like visual state manager
and silver, Silverlight where you
can describe a whole bunch
of States and it handles
the coordination. It's actually kind
of similar in the sense
that this, this lets you
maintain your application state. Whereas
visual state manager will reshuffle
the UI to match that
state. And one of the
cool things you can do
is you can say like,
you know, a button okay.
Dot select, and then select
visual state you want. Right.
So you could return like
loading as, and then subscribed
to that and say visual
state manager dot go to
state. Right. So you could,
you could write code really
easily that that takes your
application state and follows it
and then moves it and
then, and then signals your
visual state to change. Okay.
I think I'm understanding, but
I'm also putting my mind
in the, I'm putting myself
in the mind of the
listener. And I'm wondering if
they may be a little
confused right now. So events
are, are pushed out to
me. And I know about
events like button click and
key down and they come
really fast. They come, they
come a lot and each
time they, they, they, they
arrive. I get called. So
my, you know, my key
down event might be happening.
Lots of in, we're not
just talking about key down.
It could be mouse over
and every potential event that's
out there. Then those are
all kind of push events.
And then I'm, I'm, I'm,
I'm, they're announced their interrupts
almost. And then in, in
reactive extensions, I am kind
of pulling from a collection
of these events. One of
the things that I'm having
trouble getting my head around
is if there's a collection
of events, how am I
pulling from them at, at,
at, at real time at
the right speed? I mean,
with an interrupt, it's like,
Hey, a key went down.
You can't wait, deal with
me now. But with, with
a, with a collection of
events, it makes me wonder
if I might get behind,
because I'm kind of like
doing the, the, the Lucille
ball kind of like the,
of the chocolates or on
the conveyor belt and going
really fast. And I have
been able to keep up.
So suddenly things start going
wrong. Can these events get
ahead of me? And I
get, I get behind. So
the reactive extensions kind of
guarantees that they'll never get,
you'll never get behind. And
one of the things we've
talked, we haven't talked about
yet is, is the reactive
extensions are kind of interesting
in the sense that you
described this pipeline and you
don't describe, you're describing what
will happen. You, you're not
describing how it will happen.
And so what I mean
with how it will happen
is so with link, we
always know that that when
I do my, for each
that's, that's the thread in
which it's going to run.
So it's, you know, when
I do for each, it's
going to run through this
pipeline one item at a
time, right? So by default,
it's going, when it's going
to follow in reactive extensions,
it's going to go through
this pipeline on whoever initiated
the event. Right? So if
it fires key up it's
as if the key up
handler did all that stuff,
but one of the cool
things is you can use,
what's called a scheduler and
you can say, okay, I
want this, this set of
things to happen on another
threat. And, but I'm going
to describe it in the
same way. So if I
wanted to change it to
say, I don't want it
to run on another threat,
I want it to run
on the UI thread. That's
just like one little parameter,
right? So I can describe,
like, not only what I
want to happen, I can
tell where I want it
to happen. And the react
extensions kind of handles a
lot of the synchronization and
locking stuff. So you don't
have to worry about like,
am I going to run
over this local variable or
things? And it kind of
guarantees that things happen in
order. Right. I see. So
this is like the reactive
extensions is a very good
example of, of a layer
of abstraction that is hiding
so much stuff and so
much complexity underneath it that
it does seem kind of
surprisingly and impossibly simple, But
there is a lot of
work going on underneath. Yeah,
exactly. They're, they're handling a
lot of the locking and
things like that, that you
wouldn't have to do your
own yourself. And the thing
that I like really like
about the reactive extensions is
it lets you describe what
you want to happen right.
In, in a way that's
succinct. And when I, when
I think about like, can
execute on a button, I
phrase it in, like this
button can be enabled when
these two fields are not
empty. Right. And so I
want to write that in
one sentence, kind of in
one statement. And if I
do that with events, I
can't do that. I have
to like say a little
bit of a here, a
little bit of an event
handler. And then I have
to check all these things
and maybe, you know, back
in the day, if you
coded like WinForms, or even
before that, like VB, you
had this like update UI
function, right. This function that
would just, anytime something changed
you called update UI and
would change all the controls
to match. Right. And so
instead I can say like
in this one really succinct
kind of the way I'm
thinking about it, statement is
like, I want this to
be clickable when this does
true. Hi, this is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse
to an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. So if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team polls. And please
do thank tolerance for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K coloring. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes if
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us.
Okay. Now I think we're
circling and circling the drain.
This is where I think
it just made sense. So
it just like link is
really nice in that you
can, you can condense things,
not into one giant fluent
kind of crazy sentence. Like
some people are doing, but
into a nice succinct take
this list. Give me those
things that start with a
capital a then short from
there and return another list.
Just like you said, at
the beginning, you, you build
together a nice little pipeline
that says here's the list
that I have. Here's the
list that I want. And
rather than building four loops
of four loops or four
loops with link, I can
just write it and say,
here's kind of what I
want. And then you're describing
the same thing for events.
Yup. Yup. Here's the interesting
thing that, that really kind
of blew my mind and
made the re reactive extensions
kind of apply to everything.
So if you think about
so WPF and Silverlight have
this interface called, I notified
property changed and you, and
you use it on your
view model and model objects,
this interface that says, Hey,
a property changed. So normally,
you know, with a regular,
just good old fashioned class,
we don't know when properties
change. We'd have to like
ask over and over and
say like, Hey, is this
property changed? Is it, is
it so I know I
notify property change, let's us
say, Hey, let's us call
be called back when a
property changes. Right. And so
once I realized that property
change notifications are events, that
was a big like kind
of like light bulb moment,
right? Because then if property
change notifications or events, then
they should be property change
objects should be observable. Right.
That kind of makes the
reactive extensions apply to anything
because really, you know, an
object that you can watch
when things change is a
really useful thing, regardless of
whether you're in NVC or
you're in WPF or you're
a console application. Right. Okay.
So do you use this
in server life, but you
think that this is something
that's useful everywhere? Yeah. So,
so I kind of split
it apart. So there's a
core library that doesn't depend
on Silverlight because I actually
heard from people on the,
on the web that they
were using it in MVC
projects and, and kind of
just cutting out pieces and
pasting them into their project.
So like your view model
object, right. They would use
this in their MDC projects
and the same thing we,
we also have in reactive
UI, a, a it's called
a reactive collection, which is
an observable collection. So you
can say like, tell me
when items are added or
removed And that's an event
too. Right. Okay. And so
it's also an observable. One
of the things that I've
struggled with when trying to
create my, my Silverlight applications
is I'm an old, old,
old WinForms guy. And I
always end up kind of
with a Boolean somewhere managing
state, or, you know, some,
some variable out there that's
keeping track of, of, you
know, just something hacky. Hmm.
Are these libraries and the
different things like MVVM, MVVM
light. We had Lauren putting
y'all on the show a
while back talking about MVVM
reactive UI, are these all
things that are gonna literally
make my UI clean and
tight and perfect. I mean,
I've always wanted to have
an application that didn't have
state booleans floating around and
in a, in a global
space, but they always seem
to end up there. Is
this my lack of ability
or is this, is this
actually possible now with these,
these, these libraries? I think
that that, because of the
way that these are this
pattern set up and remember
MVVM was kind of invented
after WPF. And so, so
I think that it wasn't
really totally integrated. And so,
so people, myself included definitely
struggle in like, how can
I get rid of this
hacky Boolean? Like, you know,
if you give up and
like in the, in the
window handler, you had an
event and you're like, okay,
this is an MVVM proper.
Right. But I think that's
one of my goals is
to be able to write
with reactive UI to kind
of come up with like,
how can I get rid
of these hacky things and
be able to write things
in a way that's, that's
understandable and, and does what
it says and kind of
clean. So I don't, I
don't think it's quite there
yet, but it's, it's, it's
on its way. I think
there's some really interesting things
you could do. Hmm. I
guess I'm trying to find
out whether or not it's
just my lack of ability
that's preventing me from pulling
this off, or if I
can blame it on a
lack of knowledge Available libraries.
I think, I think that,
that if, if it's your
lack of ability, then you're
not the only one, I
think a lot of people
are struggling with like, how
can I do things like
focus? Right. Well, I appreciate
that. Yeah. I definitely as
well, like in my, in
my side projects, I'm like,
ah, this is, this is
not MBM and I'm doing
it wrong, but I got
to get it out the
door. Right? Yeah. Personally, I
don't like that feeling of
I'm doing it wrong. That
seems to happen a lot.
Like when a library forces
me into an I'm doing
it wrong moment, you know,
no one wants to have
the library making you feel
bad, you know, that the
library is poorly designed. If
it, in fact makes you
feel bad about yourself while
you're using it. So definitely
great to feel very happy
about themselves. Yeah. Yeah. A
quick aside, if you got
any of this in, in
new gap is where the
active, extensions and reactive UI
in the new get a
package manager such that I
can easily bring this down.
Yeah. So I recently added
the latest version and the
cool thing is that it
brings in all of the
reactive extensions for you. So
it has that dependency thing,
or it'll just look up
like, you know, pulling all
the libraries you need. So
you just click on reactive
UI and then it'll pull
everything down. So even from,
even from silver light, I
just go and say, install,
Package, reactive UI, or the
user interface, And this will
come down. Yep. So we
support Silverlight for.net three, five.net
four. And then there is
a separate package because of
kind of issue in new,
get called react UI dash
WP seven. So you can
use it with windows phones.
Okay. All right. So we've
got the reactive extensions that
kind of switch the event
model on its ear, allow
us to kind of, you
do link to events effectively.
Then we've got your framework
and classes that integrate with
that library that are really
focused on doing things correctly.
You're, you're enabling us with
your reactive object and your
different extension methods to make
that even more intuitive and
even more, more friendly with
me in my report. Yeah.
And it's, and it's kind
of rewriting some of the
bridge code that a lot
of people were writing. Like
when I saw people using
reactive extensions with MVVM like,
you know, with MVVM light,
they would have to write
up a lot of like
glucose, like a lot of
just kind of redundant the
same thing over and over
again. And it's like, well,
let's just get rid of
that. And so they can
kind of write, like, I'm
really interested in when the,
you know, name, property changes.
Just give me an observable
whenever the name property changes.
And instead of writing, like,
you know, observable from event,
blah, blah, blah dot where
property change, you can just
say this dot observable from
property, and then you can
use an expression. So you
say like texts Name, and
then now you've got an
observable that fires, whenever name
changes on your, on your
object. Okay. So just kind
of reducing the kind of
junk code you have to
write that kind of obscures
your intent. I've seen a
number of things lately from,
I know that Daniel Catalino
sent me something called magic,
and there's a number of
cool kind of code weaving
type of aspect oriented things
that a lot of people
who, who deal with I
notified property changed a lot,
come up with creative ways
to get rid of it.
And, and for those who
aren't familiar with it, the
idea is that you, you
probably just want to have
public string first name and
public string, last name, except
you have to announce in
the setter that something's happened
and that's often considered distasteful.
So there's lots of libraries
to make it easier. You
can like use the magic
library and you basically literally
put in an attribute called
magic on it. And it
will automatically insert that for
you, there's post build steps
that do things and didn't
change the code. Just write
post compile time. That seems
like the, the, the, the
only thing that's not like
nice about this from a
boilerplate perspective is that, you
know, kind of half the
code you're writing is the
border plate raise and set
if changed type of stuff.
Do you have any thoughts
about that? Yeah. So one
of these days I'm going
to convince Anders to add
macros to C-sharp and then
this whole thing will be
easier. I think, I think
that without using kind of
aspect rewriting, I have kind
of come up well, you
know, a lot of other
people have it too, that
the shortest way to write
this pattern. Right. But you
mentioned like combining, combining properties
together. And that's one other
interesting thing that, that I've
kind of the reactive extensions
really help you with is,
is one thing that almost
the most interesting thing about
reactive UI is taking a
property and turning it into
observable. So I want to
listen to when a property
changes and you can also
do the opposite. You can
take an observable and turn
it into a property. And
this is really useful for
like, like output properties. Like
for example, you have say
a color picker, right? And
so you have red, green,
blue, three boxes, and then
you have, you need to
draw the actual color. Right?
And so the color is
going to change when either
the red, the green or
the blue change. And so
you could make, you can
make an observable that combines
the properties, red, green, blue
text boxes, and then output
a color. And so, but
WPF needs needs a property
to buy into it. Doesn't
know how to bind to
observables. And so one of
the things we provide is
a way to take an
observable and put it into,
I kind of call it
an output property. It's kind
of like this, this thing
that you can't set, but
it's going to change. And
then WPF will say, Oh
yeah, this property changed. So
it's taking these three, three
discrete individual properties and then
combining them together and then
notifying WPF when it changes.
That's interesting. I could see
that being useful for date
times, if you've got five
or six text boxes that
all represent a daytime in
aggregate, you could assemble a
date from a bunch of
text boxes. That's an interesting
way to do what in,
in the, in the MPC
and the asp.net MVC, where
we would call like a
custom model binder, where we
have something coming in on
the input that can't be
easily explained in a single
text box or in a
single piece of, of name
value. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind
of, if you use Silverlight
and WPF, you have this
high value converter, right. That
lets you just take a
type or take one property
and then turn it into
another one, but kind of
the reactive extensions lets you
build these super powered. I
value converters that can, you
know, convert all kinds of
different things and combine things
together in interesting ways. It's
kind of a just-in-time I
value converter. I've written a
number of I value converters
that do like bullying, divisible
or bullying, you know, or
visible to re had this
one. That was actually, there's
an interesting question. So what
was working on this windows
seven phone application and I
have a flag in my
view model that indicates whether
or not an article has
been read and I wanted
to present a style and
basically change the color of
an item based on whether
or not it had been
read or not. And it
became this whole complicated creation
of like I value converter.
And then there was a,
a big style binding expression.
And all I really wanted
to do was turn this
thing blue when that Boolean
is true and it ended
up being like 19 lines
of code, it felt gross
and I can't help, but
thinking it's probably slow too.
Yeah. So, so in, in,
in, in react to the
UI, you just say observable
from property, the bul.select, right.
Cause we want to take
whenever the bul changes and
then kind of make a
new thing and then select
maybe a style name and
then we say.to property and
then that would send it
to a certain property. Maybe
we call it like red
style or something like that.
Right. And is this slow?
I mean like they're there
whenever I have a library
that gets sufficiently far away
from the low level stuff,
I start to worry that,
you know, observable for property,
you know, making something from
something else that sounds like
that would be slow on
a phone. So I haven't
done too much testing on,
on phone performance. I've definitely
done a lot of profiling
to see like how can
I make sure that we're
not, you know, allocating objects
that we don't need to
and things like this, but
I built this program that
it would, one of the
things aspects of it was
it would display this number,
counting up really fast, you
know, like if you're using
like a gas gauge, right.
And you'll see like the
number like spin up as
fast as a candidate originally,
I thought I was going
to have to go really
low level and like override
the render and like do
all this crazy stuff. But
originally I was just like,
okay, let's write it. Let's
write it the easy way,
you know, and just see
how bad it is basically.
And actually because of, because
of the GPU acceleration and,
and how well this binding
stuff works. And actually it
wasn't bad at all. Right.
It was updating, I think
every 200 milliseconds and, and
the CPU usage was like
6% and it wasn't bad
at all. So I was
actually surprised that that sometimes
it will matter, right. If
I was building like a
S like, you know, something
that operating on a S
on the stock exchange change,
I'd probably hit that limit.
Right. But I think for
a lot of people's programs,
so you can write it
that way, but it's the
same thing with link, right.
You know, link has a
performance penalty and you write
it the elegant easy to
read maintainable way. And then
you profile to find the
bits that you really need
to rewrite is as four
loops and, and ugly. All
right. So is there a
sample? I mean, I understand
that anyone can download a
library, but where's the canonical,
you know, application is full
of text boxes and examples.
Have you, have you made
like an address, an address
book or something that uses
all of these features in
a, in an appropriate way
that will teach me just
by reading the code? Yeah.
So I wrote a sample
and I'm working on writing
another, or there's, there's a
windows phone sample, a WPF
sample. And I'm actually working
on writing a third sample
based on Scott. I know
you've heard of the Pomodoro
timers, right. Where you have
this work for 25 minutes
and then break for five
minutes. And so I'm working
on writing a program that
not only does that with
the reactive extensions, it also
tests it. And so you
can imagine testing it. What
would kind of be a
little difficult, right? Because, because
you'd have to wait a
lot of time, right. Because
it's a timer, right. Your
start in the new weight,
and then you can hit
pause and then start again.
But the reactive extension has
this really cool thing. And
I actually describe it in
a, in a blog post
where you can test things
that would normally take a
lot of time instantly like
running in and simulating time
passing. Right. Which is really
cool because you can take
tests that would normally have
to have a lot of
sleeps and kind of like
delays or, or call out
to some web service and
takes a lot of time
and you can fake them
out and make your tests
run at full speed, which
is really cool. Like I
discovered that a while back
and suddenly my, my really
unreliable thread dot sleep tests
turned into really, really clean
fast tests, which was really
cool. Okay, excellent. Well, I'm
gonna go check this out.
I'm very excited that it's
in new get that makes
me feel very positive and
I look forward to seeing
your current sample. And then
you're the one that you're
on the way. Yep. Does
this have a home, like
a top level domain, or
we find this a deep
in a, in get hub
somewhere. It is currently deep
in get hub. I really
shouldn't register a top level
domain, but right now the
get hub page is the
best one. And it links
to my blog. I write
a lot about the reactive
extensions and about applying it
to you user interfaces. So,
so it's a good place
to like, at least see
what you can do with
the reactive extensions. I think
a lot of people are
like, well, how can I
use this? Like, so I
think it gives a lot
of people, at least a
lot of ideas, even if
they're not interested in the
actual code. Very cool. Well,
I will add links to
the, to your blog, to
the library. There's also a,
a video of you explaining
this online for the checkout.
And hopefully before this show
goes live, you'll spend $5
and buy a domain. So
otherwise someone. All right. Sounds
good. Very cool. Thanks Paul,
for talking to us today.
Yeah. Thanks a lot. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes. We'll see you
again next week.